CGRA151 Project Plan

Student name: Zac Scott
Student ID: 300447976
Name of game/artwork: Pocketable Tanks

Vision
1. Game concept: https://goo.gl/eYZMyS
- This is to be a fork on the old flash game Pocket Tanks I used to play as a child.
The purpose of the game is where 2 banks on a randomly generated terrian fire heavy 
artillary at each other to destroy the other's heath. Depending on the artillary the
shot may cause an explosion or carry momentum which will terraform the battlefield.
Each tank has a limited quantity of different ammos as well as fuel to drive.

In the original game there were 2 tanks which alternated turns where they got the
opportunity to move and / or take a shot.

Aswell as recreate the game I hope to redsign several aspects such as the interface,
falling supply drops and hopefully some more dynamic interactive backdrops. (Ie, a swing bridge.)

2. Game play:

- At the beggining of the game, a menu is shown where they can chose the number of players. (Ie, 2 or 3).
For each player they are able to take turns where they can move their tank and attempt to hit
their oppositions. All tanks will use the same controls.

- To aim and fire you can adjust your angle and power which will show part of a tradjectory. (fades out to blank in ~1/3 of tradjectory)
The User can pick which form of ammunition can be used to fire. Ie, explosive or heavy. 

3. Visual design:
Mockup: https://goo.gl/f2bFbM

- Menu Screen: Option to select # of players. Option to select backdrop (Default random)

- User turn: Tank will be highlighted in some form to indicate who's turn.
There will be fixed controls on the bottom of the screen in which the user can adjust the angle of fire,
as well as a dial for power of shot.
There will also be a energy bar showing remaining fuel which indicates how much further the tank may drive.

- Settings cog or handburger menu which can be used to display an overlay 
(can be clicked through) showing all the controls and their assigned alternative hotkeys.

- Color Pallete.
Likely comical US Millitary Colours.
https://www.pinterest.nz/pin/51369251977444733/

Timetable
1. A core working program (done by two weeks before deadline): [A paragraph describing what you plan to have working two weeks before the submission deadline.]
Randomly generated maps. Basic Tank with turret controls. At least one form of ammunition firing which causes damage to tank and terrain.
2. A reasonable submission (done by one week before deadline): [A paragraph describing what needs to be complete in order that you would be happy to submit your project.]
More ammunition added. Tanks driving. All major UI designs complete. Essentially as close to a working game a possible.
3. A well-polished submission (done by project deadline): [A paragraph describing what should be considered as polish on top of your reasonable submission. You might like to suggest a couple of extensions that you will not commit to producing but that you could attempt to implement if you have time.]
Bug Patching, Design custom backdrops in Bitmap editor. (Will load as background with loadImage()).
